feat: add home assistant codelab (#31)
viam-devrel/viamcodelabs: site/viamguides/src/home-assistant/home-assistant.md

author: HipsterBrown
id: home-assistant
summary: Add Viam to your Home Assistant with the community integration.
categories: Developer
environments: web
status: Published 

> feedback link: https://github.com/viam-labs/viamcodelabs/issues

Reviewer: The org updated to `viam-devrel`. Redirect works, but can create an issue to address in template builder and replace all.

   ![add machine](assets/viam-add-machine.png)
1. Click **View setup instructions**.
   ![setup instructions](assets/viam-machine-setup.png)
1. To install `viam-server` on the Raspberry Pi device that you want to use to communicate with and control your webcam, select the `Linux / Aarch64` platform for the Raspberry Pi, and leave your installation method as [`viam-agent`](https://docs.viam.com/how-tos/provision-setup/#install-viam-agent).
   ![select platform](assets/viam-machine-install.png)
1. Use the `viam-agent` to download and install `viam-server` on your Raspberry Pi. Follow the instructions to run the command provided in the setup instructions from the SSH prompt of your Raspberry Pi.
   ![installation agent](assets/viam-agent.png)
1. The setup page will indicate when the machine is successfully connected.
   ![successful toast](assets/viam-machine-connected.png)

### Add an ML model service

1. In the Viam app, click the **+** icon in the left-hand menu and select **Service**, and then `ML model`.
   ![select ML model](assets/viam-config-ml-model.png)

> 1. Search for a module called `TFLite CPU`. Then click **Add module**, and **Create** a new vision service called `mlmodel-1`.

Reviewer: TFLite (aka LiteRT) is popular. Would it be worth including a mention in the What You'll Learn/What You've Learned section, and linking to a page like this? https://ai.google.dev/edge/litert Even though we've abstracted the implementation details, it's good to reinforce what they're learning to use.

   ![select vision](assets/viam-config-vision.png)
1. Search for a module called `mlmodel`. Then click **Add module**, and **Create** a new vision service called `vision-1`.
   ![add module](assets/viam-config-vision-name.png)
1. Notice adding this service adds the vision service called `vision-1`. From the **ML Model** section of the panel, select `mlmodel-1`.
   ![select ML model for vision service](assets/viam-config-vision-model.png)
1. **Save** your changes in the top right and wait a few moments for the configuration changes to take effect.

> aside negative
> If any problems occur, check under the **LOGS** tab to see what might be going wrong.

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Add Viam integration to Home Assistant
Duration: 5

As a community integration, Viam is available through the [Home Assistant Community Store (HACS)](https://hacs.xyz/).
After [getting started with HACS](https://hacs.xyz/docs/use/#getting-started-with-hacs), the [hipsterbrown/viam-home-assistant-integration repository](https://github.com/HipsterBrown/viam-home-assistant-integration) can be added as a custom repository to the store.

> 1. From the HACS dashboard in Home Assistant, click on the top-right action menu (three-vertial dots) and select "Custom repositories".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the HACS dashboard in Home Assistant, click on the top-right action menu (three-vertical dots) and select "Custom 
```

   ```yaml
   {{ people_detections.detections|count > 0 }}
    ```
   ![condition config](assets/ha-automation-action-config-condition.png)
1. Click "+ Add Action"  to open the selection modal, then search for "Persist" and select the top result.
   ![notification action](assets/ha-automation-action-search-persist.png)
1. Click the action menu (three vertical dots) on the new "Persistent Notifications: 'Create'" card, and select "Edit in YAML" to display the YAML editor for creating templated notifications. Replace the `data: {}` line with the following code:
   ```yaml
   data:
     title: People Alert
     message: >
       Detected {{ people_detections.detections|join(", ", "name")|default("nothing",
       true) }}: ![captured image]({{ people_detections.img_src }})
    ```
    This will create a notification with a list of detected people and the associated image.
   ![notification config](assets/ha-automation-action-config-persist.png)
1. Click the "Save" button in the bottom-right corner to enter a name for the automation and complete the setup.

   > aside negative
   > **Troubleshooting:**
   >

>    > - Check the **Traces** page of the automation to display relevant errors.

Reviewer: Neat! I've never set up an automation to check periodically. Or used the Traces before.

   > - Check the "Settings" -> "System" -> "Logs" page to see more details about any errors.

<!-- ------------------------ -->
## Next Steps
Duration: 3

Congratulations, you now have automated people detection for your smart home! Building on this experience you can do the following to make it even smarter:

> - [automatically collect images](https://github.com/HipsterBrown/viam-home-assistant-integration?tab=readme-ov-file#viamcapture_image) or [sensor data](https://github.com/HipsterBrown/viam-home-assistant-integration?tab=readme-ov-file#viamcapture_data) from your Home Assistant devices in Viam

Reviewer: I am definitely going to try piping in my air quality sensor data into HA, and try to visualize it too. Good suggestion.
